- [Main output](#main-output)
- [Modules](#modules)
  - [extract](#extract)
  - [imgt_download](#imgt_download)
  - [trust4](#trust4)
  - [summarize](#summarize)
  - [multiqc-sgr](#multiqc-sgr)
  - [pipeline\_info](#pipeline_info)

# Main output

- `multiqc/multiqc_report.html` HTML report containing QC metrics.
- `summarize/{sample}_all_contig.csv` Detailed annotations for each contig.
- `summarize/{sample}_all_contig.fasta` All assembled contig sequences.
- `summarize/{sample}_filtered_contig.csv` Annotations of each cellular contig after filter.
- `summarize/{sample}_filtered_contig.fasta` Assembled contig sequences after filter.
- `summarize/{sample}_clonotypes.csv` Description for each clonotype.

# Modules

## extract

Extract the barcode from R1 fastqs and add the barcode to the read names of R1 and R2.

**Output files** 
- `{sample}.{R1,R2}.fq.gz` Fastq files with barcodes added.

## imgt_download

Build custom V,J,C gene database.

**Output files** 
- `IMGT+C.fa` V,J,C gene Fasta file.

## trust4

TRUST4 performs de novo assembly on V, J, C genes including the hypervariable complementarity-determining region 3 (CDR3) and reports consensus contigs of BCR/TCR sequences. TRUST4 then realigns the contigs to IMGT reference gene sequences to identify the corresponding gene and CDR3 details. Details can be found [here](https://github.com/liulab-dfci/TRUST4)

**Output files** 
- `{sample}_cdr3.out` CDR3 and gene information.
- `{sample}_assign.out` Reads assignment results.
- `{sample}_assembled_reads.fa` Assembled reads sequence.
- `{sample}_annot.fa` Assembled annotated contig sequences info.
- `{sample}_report.tsv` Record CDR3 types, read count and proportion.
- `{sample}_filter_report.tsv` Filter non-functional CDR3 result.
- `{sample}_barcode_report.tsv` Record chain information for each barcode.
- `{sample}_barcode_airr.tsv` Barcode report in [AIRR format](https://docs.airr-community.org/en/latest/datarep/rearrangements.html).
- `{sample}_airr.tsv` Annotation in [AIRR format](https://docs.airr-community.org/en/latest/datarep/rearrangements.html).

## summarize

Summarize and filter from trust4 result files.

**Output files** 
- `{sample}_all_contig.csv` Detailed annotations for each contig.
- `{sample}_all_contig.fasta` All assembled contig sequences.
- `{sample}_filtered_contig.csv` Annotations of each cellular contig after filter.
- `{sample}_filtered_contig.fasta` Assembled contig sequences after filter.
- `{sample}_clonotypes.csv` Description for each clonotype.

## match

Match with scRNA-Seq library.

**Output files** 
- `{sample}_matched_contig.csv` Annotations of each cellular contig matched with scRNA-seq.
- `{sample}_matched_contig.fasta` Assembled Contig sequences matched with scRNA-seq.

## multiqc-sgr

[MultiQC](http://multiqc.info) is a visualization tool that generates a single HTML report summarising all samples in your project. Most of the pipeline QC results are visualised in the report and further statistics are available in the report data directory.

[multiqc-sgr](https://pypi.org/project/multiqc-sgr/) adds some modules on this basis to facilitate the visualization of single cell-related data.

**Output files**

- `multiqc_report.html`: a standalone HTML file that can be viewed in your web browser.
- `multiqc_data/`: directory containing parsed statistics from the different tools used in the pipeline.
- `multiqc_plots/`: directory containing static images from the report in various formats.

## pipeline_info

[Nextflow](https://www.nextflow.io/docs/latest/tracing.html) provides excellent functionality for generating various reports relevant to the running and execution of the pipeline. This will allow you to troubleshoot errors with the running of the pipeline, and also provide you with other information such as launch commands, run times and resource usage.

**Output files**

- Reports generated by Nextflow: `execution_report.html`, `execution_timeline.html`, `execution_trace.txt` and `pipeline_dag.dot`/`pipeline_dag.svg`.
- Reports generated by the pipeline: `pipeline_report.html`, `pipeline_report.txt` and `software_versions.yml`. The `pipeline_report*` files will only be present if the `--email` / `--email_on_fail` parameter's are used when running the pipeline.
- Reformatted samplesheet files used as input to the pipeline: `samplesheet.valid.csv`.
- Parameters used by the pipeline run: `params.json`.